{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f35\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f36\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f37\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f39\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f40\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f41\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f42\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f44\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f56\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f57\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}
{\f59\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}{\f60\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f61\fmodern\fcharset177\fprq1 Courier New (Hebrew);}{\f62\fmodern\fcharset178\fprq1 Courier New (Arabic);}
{\f63\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f64\fmodern\fcharset163\fprq1 Courier New (Vietnamese);}{\f386\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f387\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f389\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}
{\f390\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f391\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}{\f392\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f393\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f394\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}
{\f395\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*
\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 HTML Preformatted;}{
\s16\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f35\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext16 \ssemihidden \styrsid12716661 Balloon Text;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid267789
\rsid3741423\rsid7105032\rsid9330070\rsid11013140\rsid11155710\rsid11739624\rsid12716661\rsid15031999\rsid16325397\rsid16674089}{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.5604;}{\info{\title Appendix A \'96 About the CD-ROM}{\author M. Tim Jones}
{\operator M. Tim Jones}{\creatim\yr2003\mo1\dy12\hr20\min7}{\revtim\yr2005\mo2\dy17\hr21\min29}{\version14}{\edmins44}{\nofpages7}{\nofwords1276}{\nofchars7278}{\*\company spamco}{\nofcharsws8537}{\vern24689}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3
\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale100\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot16325397 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain 
\s1\ql \li0\ri0\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 About the CD-ROM
\par }\pard \s1\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid11739624 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 
The CD-ROM contains a number of useful applications that demonstrate the properties of AI algorithmic techniques and methods. The methods and applications that demonstrate them are noted in this section.
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\prdate109892625\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16325397 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\*\oldpprops \pard \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16325397 }{\insrsid16325397 Pathfinding Algorithm}{\insrsid16325397\charrsid16325397 
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid16325397 
Pathfinding algorithms, specifically the A-star algorithm, explored in Chapter 2.  A non-uniform reward landscape is used to demonstrate the optimal pathfinding abilities of the A-star algorithm.  Also provided on the CD}{\fs24\insrsid267789 -}{
\fs24\insrsid16674089 R}{\fs24\insrsid267789 OM}{\fs24\insrsid16325397  are demonstrations of the Depth-First-Search and Breadth-First-Search algorithms.  These can be found on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid16325397\charrsid16325397 ./software/ch2}{
\fs24\insrsid16325397 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 Simulated Annealing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 Simulated annealing, or modeling of system
atic cooling of a molten metal to a solid, is described in Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid16325397 3}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 
. The theoretical N-Queens problem is used to demonstrate the constraint satisfaction properties of the algorithm. The algorithm and application can be found on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{\f2\insrsid16325397 3}{
\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\prdate109892628\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16325397 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\*\oldpprops \pard \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid16325397 }{\insrsid16325397 Particle Swarm Optimization
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid16325397 
Particle Swarm Optimization is a swarm intelligence algorithm that uses a population of loosely dependent particles to solve a variety of problems.  We use particle swarm optimization here to demonstrate function optimizatio
n (finding the combination of parameters that maximize the results of a given function).  The algorithm and application to maximize the sombrero function is provided on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid16325397\charrsid16325397 ./software/ch4}{
\fs24\insrsid16325397 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid11739624 Adaptive Resonance Theory
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 Adaptive Resonance Theory, als
o called ART-1, is a clustering algorithm that provides the ability to separate (or cluster) elements in a data set into independent data sets based upon properties of the individual data items. The algorithm does this in an unsupervised manner, allowing 
the algorithm to find patterns in the data that a user may not notice. The practical problem of personalization is used to demonstrate ART1 in the context of a recommender system in Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid9330070 5}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 
. The algorithm and application can be found on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{\f2\insrsid9330070 5}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\prdate109892632\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9330070 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\*\oldpprops \pard \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9330070 }{\insrsid9330070 Classifier Systems
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid15031999 
In Chapter 6, we explore one of the older learning algorithms in AI, the learning classifier system.  Learning Classifier Systems (LCS) is a class of algorithms that learn condition/action rules based upon reward received fr
om the target environment.  We demonstrate the basic LCS}{\fs24\insrsid11739624  in an obstacle grid world, where the agent learns sets of classifiers to avoid running into obstacles.  The sample application of LCS can be found on the CD-ROM at }{
\f2\insrsid11739624\charrsid11739624 ./software/ch6}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .}{\fs24\insrsid9330070 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 Ant Algorithms
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 Ant
 algorithms are a relatively new method that can be used to identify optimal paths through a graph. This method is described in Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid9330070 7}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 
. Ant algorithms model the movement of ants within an environment and use }{\fs24\insrsid11013140 a }{\fs24\insrsid11739624 simulated pheromone to communicate with oth
er ants (the process of stigmergy). The theoretical problem of the Traveling Salesman Problem (or TSP) is used to demonstrate the ant algorithm. The algorithm and application can be found on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{
\f2\insrsid9330070 7}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid11739624 Backpropagation Algorithm
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 The backpropagation algorithm, discussed in Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid9330070 8}{
\fs24\insrsid11739624 , is one of the primary methods used to train multi-layer neural networks given a training set and a set of desired outputs.  Backpropagation propagates errors back through the nodes of a network, altering the w
eights of the connections based upon the error of the actual and desired outputs.  The interesting problem of training game neurocontrollers (game AI) is used to demonstrate backpropagation. Given a simple neural network, a set of environmental inputs and
 
a set of allowable actions (otherwise known as the training set), the algorithm trains the network to perform the desired action for the current environment. It is then demonstrated that the neurocontroller is able to generalize and perform useful behavio
rs for unforeseen environments. The backpropagation algorithm and neurocontroller application can be found on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{\f2\insrsid9330070 8}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\prdate109892633\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9330070 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\*\oldpprops \pard \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid9330070 }{\insrsid9330070 Reinforcement Learning
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid7105032 Reinforcement learning, the topic of Chapter 9, 
is an interesting state-space/action search and optimization algorithm which learns probability transitions for a given problem.  We demonstrate the Q learning algorithm of reinforcement learning in a problem landscape that includes both obstacles and var
iable rewards for getting from a start to goal position.  The Q-learning example is provided on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid7105032\charrsid7105032 ./software/ch9}{\fs24\insrsid7105032 .}{\fs24\insrsid9330070 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s3\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs28\insrsid11739624 Genetic Algorithms / Genetic Programming
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 Genetic algorithms provide a novel optimization technique that can be applied to both num
erical and symbolic problems, and is described in Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid9330070 10}{\fs24\insrsid11013140 . The subfield of g}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 
enetic programming is further used to illustrate the creation of instruction sequences to solve problems in code generation. Sequences of instructions are evolved to solve mathe
matical functions, and it is demonstrated how these sequences can find novel strings that are both interesting and optimal given a simple virtual machine. The genetic programming algorithm and application can be found on the CD-ROM at }{
\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{\f2\insrsid9330070 10}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }{\fs28\insrsid11739624 Artificial Life / Evolving Neural Networks
\par }{\fs24\insrsid11739624 Artificial life is studied here in the context of neural networks through evolution of simple organisms in a synthetic environment and is described in Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid9330070 11}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 
. Organisms survive through successfully existing withi
n their environment, avoiding prey and foraging for food. Organisms are permitted to reproduce, once they reach a high enough level of internal energy. Therefore, reproduction is only permitted if organisms can survive within the environment, which should
 
lead to more fit organisms. The organisms are provided with multi-layer neural networks as their neurocontrollers, and given two different types of organisms, illustrate simple food-web organizations. The artificial life application can be found on the CD
-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{\f2\insrsid9330070 11}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 Expert Systems
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 Rules-based systems are the topic of Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid9330070 12}{
\fs24\insrsid11739624 , which }{\fs24\insrsid11013140 shows the }{\fs24\insrsid11739624 emphasis and implementation of a forward-chaining system. Varieties of examples are provided, in the form of rules and initial facts, with a final example of }{
\fs24\insrsid11013140 integrating }{\fs24\insrsid11739624 the rules-based system into an embedded system and utilizing it for sensor fault-tolerance. The forward-chaining rules-based system and application files can be found on the CD-ROM at }{
\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{\f2\insrsid9330070 12}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 Fuzzy Logic
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 In Chapter }{\fs24\insrsid3741423 13}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 , fuzzy lo
gic and fuzzy control are described including an implementation of a fuzzy API for inclusion into other applications. The API provides not only the standard fuzzy operators, but also helper functions that support the simple creation of fuzzy membership fu
nctions. The fuzzy logic API and a simple battery charger example is provided on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch}{\f2\insrsid3741423 13}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\prdate109892635\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741423 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\*\oldpprops \pard \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1
\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid3741423 }{\insrsid3741423 Natural Language Processing
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11155710 
Chapter 14 introduces the problem of natural language processing.  We explore a simple predictive parser in this cha
pter to parse simple English language sentences.  Additionally, we exploit the minimal example to build a knowledge frame once the sentence has been parsed.  The natural language processing source is provided on the CD-ROM at }{
\f2\insrsid11155710\charrsid11155710 ./software/ch14}{\fs24\insrsid11155710 .}{\fs24\insrsid3741423 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 Hidden Markov Models
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 Hidden Markov models are the topic of Chapter 1}{\fs24\insrsid3741423 5}{
\fs24\insrsid11739624 , which are networks that include states and transitions with associated probabilities. The outcome, or observation, of a state is generated based upon the associated probability distribution. The ac
tion is performed, made visible, though the internal state is hidden, thus the hidden aspect of the Markov model. Hidden Markov models have a variety of applications; in Chapter 10 we look at the generation of meaningful text based upon training by a corp
us. The HMM and a text generation example is provided on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 ./software/ch1}{\f2\insrsid3741423 5}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs28\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 Intelligent Agents
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 Intelligent agents are the final topic in Chapter 1}{\fs24\insrsid3741423 6}{
\fs24\insrsid11739624 
, with emphasis on search and filtering agents. Intelligent agents are applied in a number of different ways; the application chosen for this chapter is a filtering agent that acts as an intermediary to UseNet sites on the Internet. The WebAgent is config
ured through a simple configuration file. It then autonomously gathers news using the NNTP protocol and presents it to the user with the HTTP protocol (acting as a simple web server). The WebAgent is provided on the CD-ROM at }{\f2\insrsid11739624 
./software/ch1}{\f2\insrsid3741423 6}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 .
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx916\tx1832\tx2748\tx3664\tx4580\tx5496\tx6412\tx7328\tx8244\tx9160\tx10076\tx10992\tx11908\tx12824\tx13740\tx14656\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \f2\fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\insrsid11739624 
\par }\pard\plain \s1\ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\keepn\widctlpar\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs32\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid11739624 System Requirements
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\sl480\slmult1\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\fs24\insrsid11739624 
Applications on this CD-ROM require a PC with Windows 95, 98, 2000, Me, or XP using the Cygwin UNIX environment (freely downloadable at }{\i\fs24\insrsid11739624 www.cygwin.com}{\fs24\insrsid11739624 
), or Linux (Red Hat 6.1 or later, or comparable Linux distribution); 486 or higher CPU; 64MB RAM; 60MB disk space; CD-ROM drive; Internet access and Web browser (for the WebAgent example).
\par 
\par }}